My name is Mark Miller,
and we're going to be talking
today about the iTunes and
App Store Affiliate Program.
Before we get started with
the tools and services we
provide to make this possible,
I wanted to go over a quick overview
of what the affiliate program is,
what it can do for you,
and kind of the basics just to make
sure that everybody's on the same page.
So what is the affiliate program?
Well, basically,
it's a matter of affiliates
referring users to the stores.
The users are exposed to great content
and other things they can download
and preview and obtain that they
might not be otherwise familiar with.
And in return,
the affiliate earns a commission for each
of the purchases made after the referral.
So what can it do for you?
Why are we here?
You can use it to promote your
own apps and other content.
So if you've got books
or music or whatever,
you can use it that way.
You can also promote other
things that you don't create.
So any content on the store
is really up for grabs.
And of course you can use it
to earn money for referrals.
And in some cases this money can be a
very important revenue stream and you
can base an entire business around it.
You can also use it to track the
effectiveness of your marketing.
So trying to figure out what people are
clicking on and where they're going,
you can do that.
And the program works perfectly well
both on your website and in your apps.
So there's a couple of common
use cases that I might go over.
The first one is to drive customers
to your apps and other content.
So if you've got a promotional website
for a new app that you just released,
go ahead and make the links
from that promotional website
into the store affiliated.
You can also point users to
similar or complementary content.
So if you've got a gaming app that
has a soundtrack or something,
you can point to that
soundtrack on the store.
You can also,
if maybe your app has a productivity
app that it integrates well with,
you can refer users to that and earn
a commission on those purchases.
Most of all,
you're trying to get users to the
content that they want so that they
can get it and make them happy.
And again,
this works on the web and in your apps.
A quick cast of characters for
what's going on with all this.
First of all,
there's the iTunes app store,
iBook store, Mac app store.
For our purposes,
that's pretty much one entity.
There's also, down at the other side,
the affiliate publishers,
and that would be you, hopefully,
at the conclusion of this session.
The affiliate networks are the ones
that are mediating that relationship.
These networks provide
geo-specific services,
payments, reporting,
all that sort of things that
we are not set up to do.
And finally, of course,
there's the customers,
your customers and ours.
Now these affiliate networks,
they vary depending on which
region you're operating in.
The networks provide all the
services I mentioned before,
and it's important to use the
right ones for the right location.
So in North America, in the US, Canada,
and recently Mexico,
we partner with LinkShare,
and we also use a LinkShare
subsidiary in Japan.
In Europe and South America,
we use Trade Doubler.
And again,
the terms and kind of some of the
details about the programs will
vary according to the network.
So I mentioned earlier there's a kind
of a window of commissionable sales.
And also the percentage of the commission
might change from network to network.
But in general,
it's about three days for the window and
the commission is four or five percent.
So finally, in Australia and New Zealand,
we've got DGM.
So how does it work?
Well, it's all about links,
putting links in front of
users so that they can click
on them and get into the store.
So here's an example link.
Pretty simple URL that will
take a user into the store.
To affiliate this,
we just need to put some
information onto the URL.
From a customer perspective,
clicking on an affiliate link is
exactly like clicking on any other link.
They'll be on a page,
they find a link they like,
they click it,
and they get taken to the appropriate
content in the iTunes store.
Now, this works the same way on
iOS devices as the desktop.
Under the hood,
there's a little more going on.
So in this example,
we've got Mobile Safari on
the upper left.
This could also represent a desktop
browser or one of your apps.
To the right of that is an iTunes client,
which could be App Store, Music Store,
Book Store, Mac App Store, et cetera.
Then we've got the affiliate networks,
and on the far right, the iTunes servers.
So it starts by a user clicking an
affiliated link and that request
goes to the affiliate networks.
They're going to record that click
for reporting purposes and send
a redirect back to the browser.
The browser is going to launch iTunes,
which makes a similar affiliated
request directly to the iTunes stores,
which will respond with
a cookie and a redirect.
So that cookie is going to live on
iTunes for the commission window and
any purchases that are made within
that window will be commissioned.
Then the user browses around and
perhaps eventually buys a product,
downloads it, everything's great,
they're happy.
After everything's settled,
iTunes will report the sale to the
affiliate networks who will eventually
write you a check for the commission.
I mentioned we have to add some important
affiliate information to the URLs.
We'll take that example URL from before.
We have to add a partner
ID query parameter.
The partner ID identifies
the affiliate network.
There's also an affiliate token which
identifies you to the affiliate network.
That's sort of your user
ID within LinkShare,
Tread Doubler, or DGM.
So for LinkShare,
the partner ID value is 30,
and the affiliate token name is site ID.
And here in this example,
we've got ABCDEFG.
That's the token assigned to
you by the LinkShare network.
For Trade Doubler,
the Partner ID value is 2003 and
the affiliate token name is TDUID.
And for DGM,
the partner ID is 1002 and the
affiliate token name is Aftoken.
It's important to get these right
and make sure you've got the case
of these query parameters correct.
When a lot of people get
started with the program,
they make a few common mistakes that
I want to go over really quickly.
When you're attaching
your query parameters,
make sure you're using
the right delimiter.
If the url does not already
have a query string,
you need to make sure that
you're attaching the new
values using a question mark.
Similarly, if there's already a
question mark on the url,
don't use another one,
because then the url won't
parse and nothing will work.
So instead, check for the presence of the
question mark and do the right thing.
Another common mistake that's a little
more complex is making sure that you're
presenting the right link to users so
that you can actually earn a commission.
For example,
if you have a French user who has
an account in the French storefront,
they need to see a trade doubler link
in order for that to be credited to you.
If you give them a link share URL,
the sale won't be reported.
So it's important to geo-target your
users and create your links correctly.
Another one that commonly happens but
is worth calling out is not testing.
Just make sure that the links
that you create actually work and
take your users to the content
that you're trying to promote.
And if you're rolling out a new
feature where you're generating
a lot of links automatically,
try clicking on one of those links
and then making a small purchase just
to verify that the sale is reported.
So that's the overview.
Fortunately,
we've got a lot of great tools
to help you create these URLs,
and I'd like to go into those now.
So starting from the very basics,
if you're just getting started
with the affiliate program,
you might just want to create
a few links to add to your
website and promote your app.
We've got some great tools
to do that automatically.
They're kind of focused at the end user.
We also provide RSS feeds so that
you can be aware of what's popular,
new, featured on the stores and
Promote it to your users
with the knowledge that it's
probably interesting to them.
If you have a better idea specifically
about what you're interested in,
we provide a web API so that you
can search and look up by ID a bunch
of metadata about store content.
And as you get even further up the chain,
you might need to...
Do a bunch of offline processing
for a large amount of data.
And for that,
we have a bulk data feed called
Enterprise Partner Feeds,
or EPF.
And finally,
we have a service that allows you to
dynamically create playlists that you
can customize specifically to a user,
which can be really powerful
if you use it correctly.
So let's get started
with the simple stuff.
First off is LinkMaker.
LinkMaker is the simplest possible way
to create links to content on the store.
You go to LinkMaker,
type in a search term,
you'll get results back.
It's pretty easy.
If you click through to LinkMaker
from an affiliate network,
the nice thing about doing it that
way is that all of the information
about your account will be carried
through automatically so that the links
that are generated will be already
populated with the affiliate data.
And you don't need to worry
about question marks and
ampersands and all the rest.
If you don't do it that way,
it's available at
iTunes.Apple.com slash LinkMaker.
And if you go that route,
you have to set up the URLs manually.
So here with link maker I've done
a search for Bob Dylan and I've
got some search results back,
so I'm going to click on the
one that I'm looking for.
And I'll get a nice sheet overlay
that has some pre-formatted
HTML that I can just drop right
into my website via my HTML editor.
If I don't like the text link style,
I can also select for a
badged icon type look,
and the icons come in two
sizes; there's large and small.
So you can choose whatever is appropriate
for your website and do it that way.
We also provided,
this is a recent addition,
we provide some pre-canned widgets
that you can drop onto your website.
And these are really great
to get started quickly.
The widgets are available
at widgets.iTunes.apple.com.
and it's a really easy interface.
You can choose from a drop
down of available widgets,
customize them,
and generate some HTML that
you can drop onto your website.
Some of the examples,
you can do a search box.
So put the search box on your site.
Here the user is searching for Toy Story.
You can also define a pre-canned playlist
of content that's interesting to you.
If you are just trying
to promote a single app,
you can create a picture
frame for that app.
And finally,
you can also do a collection of books.
So if you're doing a summer reading list,
perhaps, or something along those lines,
you can drop those in.
There's a lot of other options as well.
Let's say we want to go more
along the customization route.
For that, we can use RSS.
RSS is a really simple
syndication originally.
And it's a feed of dynamic,
constantly updating content.
And it's available on
your site and in your app.
And there's a lot of feeds available
for the most popular content,
stuff that's been recently added,
featured on the store.
All these are available.
And we have what's called the
RSS generator available to
create these links to the feeds.
Let's take a look at some example usages,
just because we can modify the URLs to
the feeds and get different options back.
So for music,
the URL might look like this.
You can have the top
albums feed in the US.
Pretty simple there.
You might also want to
try the top songs feed.
These are logically separate data.
For apps, for example,
we have the top paid applications feed,
but we also have a top free
applications feed and the top
grossing applications feed.
All these are available
through RSS generator.
We also have a large amount
of other media types covered,
so podcasts, movies, books, TV shows,
music video, all there.
Again, it's all on the generator.
RSS generator is available
at iTunes.apple.com/rss.
So some of the basic options,
you can specify the country and
the feed that you're interested in.
So here I've specified that
I want France based on the
FR country code and top albums.
But maybe I'm interested
in something more specific.
I might want the top blues
albums in the French storefront.
And there we just provide a genre ID,
which is two.
We put that into the URL and we get
something more specific that way.
I can also say, well,
maybe the default list of 25 top
blues albums isn't really what I want.
I want more.
I want more depth.
For that,
you can introduce a limit into the URL,
and you'll get back the top 200 albums.
There's even more advanced possibilities.
The standard feed format is Atom,
which is kind of the de
facto standard for RSS.
And that's specified by having
that XML at the end of the URL.
But you can also change
it to get JSON output.
JSON is JavaScript Object Notation.
And using this output,
you can pull RSS data from
JavaScript on a web page very easily.
It's very easy to parse.
JSON is a pretty common format.
It's similar to PList,
but I can't go over it today.
I do recommend JSON.org, though.
They've got a great specification
and a number of software libraries
used to parse and generate JSON.
You might also be familiar with JSONP.
If you're doing web programming
and you need to pull a service
from a different domain,
JSONP stands for JSON Prefixed or Padded.
It's essentially a way to work around the
cross-site origin limits of a browser.
So we support a callback
parameter such as this,
and the JSON that we generate is
actually a function invocation
that will call into your library.
Recently,
we also added an RSS feed to track
customer reviews for your apps.
And this is a URL that looks like this.
The tag name is customer reviews,
and you plug in the ID of the
content that you're interested in.
And again, as you'd expect,
JSON output is also available.
And it's paginated because a
number of apps have many thousands
of reviews going back in time.
So we support pagination so
you can pull it in very easily.
Your newsreader may not support
this pagination natively,
so you might need to write a script to
pull in the full list of information.
But you can go into your iTunes
Connect account and find links to the
customer reviews tracking in there.
It's a great way to stay on top if you
just released a new version and you want
to know what people are saying about it.
It'll show up in your newsreader.
Quite useful.
So for that,
for a demo of what you can do with Atom,
I'm going to cut over to Ted Hosmann,
who's going to show us how we can
integrate an Atom feed into a website.
Thank you, Mark.
Here I've got just a simple
website that I've been developing.
It's a music blog site
that I'm working on,
and you can see here
that it's pretty basic,
pretty plain.
As Mark had mentioned,
we've got widgets that you
can embed in your website,
and I've gone ahead and I've already
done that with my first posting.
The widgets are nice, they look good,
and they've got this great feature
where I can actually play a preview
of the song directly in the widget.
This is our 30 second previews.
And this is all done
automatically for you.
There's not really much that
goes into making a widget.
So,
what I'm going to do is I'm actually --
I want more control over what I'm going
to present in my next blog posting.
I want to use the RSS feed so that I can
have something that updates regularly.
The widgets are nice,
but the album art is a little small.
I want a little bit bigger album art.
And I also want to show just a listing
of the songs that are on the albums.
So, to do that,
I've gone ahead and built out
-- here's my HTML for my blog.
Let me first just bring
up -- instead of this,
I'm going to bring up my RSS code
snippet that I've written.
And this is a JavaScript code snippet.
At the top you can see
the very first line.
I've defined the feed.
I want to use -- right here
I'm using the top albums.
I want the genre 20,
which is the alternative rock
albums that are on the store.
And I'm using JSON.
I've also included some of the
information from my affiliate
account so that all of these links
automatically get populated with
my affiliate tracking information.
And then I've got JSON -- or
JavaScript library that will
go ahead and parse this for me.
So, what I'm going to do is I'm just
going to copy this and paste
it right into my blog posting.
As we scroll down,
you'll see that here's my
most recent blog posting.
I'm just going to paste it right here.
And save it.
And when we go back,
let's refresh my blog.
You'll see that here I've now
got the top three albums from
the alternative rock genre.
As I hover over,
I'm showing the first five
songs from each album.
And when I click on any of the albums,
It will launch me into the iTunes
preview page and iTunes will
open up to that piece of content.
And then just real quick,
if I can go back.
They took away my back ability.
Okay.
So if I go back to my snippet that I did,
let's say I don't want alternative,
but I want the actual rock genre.
Let's go ahead and save that.
Refresh here.
And automatically,
it's been updated to our rock genre.
So that's some of the things
you can do with the RSS feeds.
And this will update as
the store charts update.
Back to you, Mark.
So that was RSS.
It's popular content coming in.
But we might -- our users might
have something specific in mind
when they come to our app or site.
And maybe we want to show something,
allow them to search for content
or look it up by their ID.
For that,
we have the Search and Lookup APIs.
So this is a metadata
lookup available on the web.
It's live, always up to date.
The responses come back as JSON,
just like in the RSS format.
Sorry.
Just like the feeds provide JSON,
these responses are also in JSON.
The two main actions
available are search.
This is pretty much as you'd expect.
You put in a term,
you get back results appropriate
for that search term.
You can also do a lookup if
you already know the ID of a
particular piece of content,
which sounds kind of mundane,
but you can actually do some
pretty powerful stuff with it.
So a data example of this is kind of
what you'll get back if you do a search.
There's quite a bit of information here.
There's URLs to some icons
appropriate for this.
This is a TV episode,
so it's got a description
of what's going on,
what the TV season name is,
what the price is, a lot of data there.
So when you do a search,
the simplest possible thing to do is
create a URL and add a term to it,
and that's your search term.
But there's a number of other
modifiers you can do when you're
creating that URL that will change
the results that you get back.
The first two are pretty simple.
It's country and language.
Not all content is available
throughout the world,
so it's important to specify the
right country for your users when
you're doing a search or a lookup.
And the language will also define how
things are formatted when they come back.
So if we have metadata available
in a particular language,
we'll use that one.
Media allows you to sort of
narrow the scope of your search.
So this allows you to define if you're
looking for books versus apps or
music versus music videos or whatever.
If you want to get even more
specific for within a media type,
you can specify entity.
And the entity will allow
you to distinguish between,
say, an album versus a song or a
TV episode versus a season,
that sort of thing.
The attribute query parameter allows
you to target your search term to
a particular field of the content.
So rather than searching for everything,
you can search specifically for an
album title or a TV episode title.
The limit parameter, again, as an RSS,
allows you to change the default
number of results that come back.
And finally, to support that JSONP for
cross-site script calls,
we have a callback.
So a callback specifies a function that
is called in your JavaScript library.
All these results come back
as JSON dictionaries and
they're sorted by relevancy.
So we try and come back with the best
results appropriate for your search.
The Lookup API, as I said before,
it takes basically an iTunes ID.
That's the most common case.
So if you know the
ID of the store content,
put that in,
you'll get back the most recent
up-to-date metadata for it.
You can also use other
identifiers such as UPC or EAN.
That's European Article Number.
They're very similar values.
If you have an ISBN for a book,
you can use that or a bundle
ID for an app either on the
Mac App Store or iOS App Store.
Now the query parameters for
Lookup are very similar to the
ones for the search requests,
but there's two important difference.
One important difference.
Entity allows you to kind of
navigate the content tree.
So if you have a TV show store ID and
you want to know the particular
episodes within that season,
you can pass in entity equals episode
and get back results for that.
Sort, in this case,
can change the default
order of the results.
By default,
content is sorted by popularity,
but you can also change it so
that it's sorted by recentness.
So if you want the most recent episodes,
you can use a sort equals recent there.
To take us through some of how
this works with some examples and
update our blog a little bit more,
we'll go back to Ted.
Thanks.
Thank you, Mark.
First off,
I'm just going to go through some of the
information that you'll get back from
using our search and our lookup APIs.
Right here, I'm doing a lookup in Safari.
We'll use Safari just so you can see what
the data is that's presented back to you.
Obviously, you'll want to bake
this into your system.
But real quick,
I'm just going to do a lookup,
and I'm going to use the bundle ID just
to get a sense of what we've got here.
So I'm going to look up
bundleid.com.apple.pages,
and this will pull up
information relating to the
Pages app that Apple's built.
As I scroll through some of this stuff,
you'll see that the artist here is Apple.
You can also see that the...
The genres are included.
The screenshots for iPad are included.
The languages that are
available for the app.
Importantly, the price is there.
Other screenshots that we have.
And then all the supported devices.
So this is all information that might be
relevant to what you're looking for when
you look up a specific piece of content.
I'm going to switch it up a
little bit because my website is
about music and not about apps.
I'm going to say... I'm looking for...
I'm going to make a search or a lookup
that takes a broad amount of information.
We're going to narrow it down.
Right now, I know that the ID for
Madonna happens to be 20,044.
And what we get back here
is just the meta information
about Madonna the artist.
So Madonna is a pop artist.
But I want to know more.
I want to know more information
about Madonna and the songs.
Specifically, maybe the albums that
she has on our store.
I'm going to add some parameters.
Entity equals album.
And now we'll see we've got 45 results.
Again, the metadata for Madonna,
the artist, is right there at the top.
And then the rest of the information
is specific to Madonna's albums.
45 is a bit much.
I only want five albums,
so I can put in that limit
that Mark had talked about,
limit equals five.
The list right here is
sorted by popularity,
and maybe I'm not looking
for the most popular albums.
She had some very popular
albums in the '90s,
and I want the most recent albums,
so I'm going to sort all of this.
So sort equals recent.
And what this will give
us is just six results.
And what you'll see is there are, again,
just the Madonna metadata at
the top and then five albums,
the most recent albums
on the store for Madonna.
So that's the lookup API.
If you know something about
what you're looking for,
you can get to the meta information about
that pretty quickly with the lookup API.
In my case,
I've got a website and I want my
users to search for something,
and so I don't know what
exactly they're looking for,
so I'm going to use the search API.
Search, and I'm going to have a term that
the users are going to put in there.
So let's say in this case they
search for the term Madonna.
I'm going to get back 50 results.
That's the default.
And all of the results
here are mixed and matched.
You can see right here I've got
an audio book about Madonna.
That's not necessarily what
I'm looking for in my website.
It's about music, not about books.
She is an author,
and she's also a movie star.
So let's narrow this
down a little bit more.
I want entity equals album again.
And now we're going to narrow it
down to just albums by Madonna.
You can see that the wrapper
type here is a collection,
so that is an album.
Actually,
we have collection type as album.
All the information
about that album is here.
[Transcript missing]
And now we've got just five results,
and these are five Madonna albums.
Madonna happens to be a popular term,
and we're seeing a lot
of results from Madonna,
but it's not necessarily the
case in the search that you
will get Madonna the artist.
And I might actually be looking
for song terms that have
Madonna in the title of the song,
and I don't necessarily want
artists that are named Madonna.
So let's narrow it down so
that I can say Attribute.
Attribute equals a song term.
And now what we'll get
is we'll get back... Oh,
I'm sorry.
I got to take out the entity
equals album because we're not
looking for albums necessarily.
So now you'll see we are -- the track
name here is "The Power of Madonna."
It's from -- it's a TV episode.
It was from the Glee soundtrack
or from the Glee -- actually,
the Glee TV show.
So now we can narrow down what
our users are searching for to
a specific piece of metadata,
and in this case, it was a song term.
So that's not what I'm
going to do in my website.
I do want the albums,
all that search stuff.
So let's go back to our code and see what
I've written for this specific example.
I'm going to build out a
search feature on my website.
I want just a text input
box and a submit button.
Here you can see I've got just that,
the text input, submit button,
and I've also, in the JavaScript,
I've included my affiliate credentials
so that I can get affiliate commission
for referencing users to this.
Let's look at the
JavaScript that's written for this.
I've got this already
embedded in my website.
If you look at the...
The very top up here, the very beginning,
I've got my search parameters
that I want to use.
And then the rest of this is just
going to return results and format
and make things pretty for my website.
So let's go ahead and go into
My blog posting.
I want to put right at the top,
I want to put this.
So I'm going to save this
and we'll go back to my blog.
Let me refresh.
You'll see now there is an input
box and I can search for Madonna.
And now you'll see I've built out
search functionality on my website
that uses the store results.
You've got the album art here.
You've got the name of the
artist and the album names.
And when you click on them,
they will take you right into the
store just as our widgets do and
just as the RSS did on our website.
So that's the Search and Lookup API that
we have for the affiliate program.
Great.
Thank you, Ted.
So, yeah, there's a lot you can
do with the Search API.
And that also will work from an app,
so if you need to pull in data that way,
go ahead and do it.
So up to now we've been
talking about the Web API,
the live, constantly updating feeds.
There's also an offline feed that
you can pull down and import into a
database for offline or batch processing.
And we call these feeds EPF.
They're bulk data feeds.
EPF comes in two flavors.
There's EPF relational,
which is kind of intended
for relational databases.
And there's EPF flats for sort
of more of the NoSQL crowd.
So for EPF Relational,
this is a feed that has very
rich metadata about virtually
all the content on the store.
It's intended for a relational database,
and it's organized by files
representing database tables.
And this is aimed at orgs that have some
pretty serious data processing needs.
Perhaps they have a content
library that they want to
cross-reference with the iTunes store,
or they have a music or app
recommendation system that needs to
know about everything that's available.
That's where EPF Relational comes in.
So the data that's available is,
as I said, very broad.
There's apps, there's podcasts, music,
audiobooks.
It's pretty broad coverage.
And it works by generating a
bulk export in two main modes.
There's a full export
that's generated every week.
And when I said this
was a bulk data feed,
this is 30,
40 gigabytes uncompressed metadata.
So it's no small matter to
bring this into a database.
Fortunately,
we also have a daily incremental export,
which is all the content that's been
updated since the last full export.
And so if you pull down each
of the weekly full feeds,
you don't have to import all 30,
40 gigs every day.
You just use the incrementals.
And this data you pull
down from a website,
you need to sign up with the program to
get an account for that website first.
And you pull it down with HTTP.
So EPF relational is organized
into purpose-specific archives.
There's iTunes, which is kind of the
basic metadata package.
There's a matching archive for UPC, ISBN,
Grid, all those other ID systems
is in the matching archive.
There's a pricing archive,
which is supposed to cover
all of the countries that
the content is available in,
and there's quite a few at this point.
And finally, the popularity archive gives
you the top thousand pieces of
content by rank in each genre.
Within each archive are those files
that represent database tables.
So for an example,
if you're interested in artists,
either music artists or movie
directors or actors and actresses
or even application developers,
that information is going
to be in the artist table.
And if you're interested, for example,
in application metadata,
that will be in the application table.
And these are, again,
both database tables
represented in files.
But if you want to know
who did a particular app,
who wrote what, essentially,
it's pretty much as you'd expect
from relational schema 101.
There's a join table between the
artist and the application files,
and those are how you can
cross-reference the two.
So that's EPF relational.
EPF flat is a simpler
way of doing things.
And instead of archives
full of multiple files,
each archive is pretty
much a single file.
And each file is for a specific country
and is intended for a given media type.
So if you want apps in the UK,
there's one file for that.
You don't need to cross-reference
anything with a join table or anything.
Thank you.
and the format is actually compatible
with a spreadsheet application.
This is, again, a large data feed,
so it's unlikely that your spreadsheet
is going to be able to handle all,
you know, several million rows.
But if you chop it up,
you can actually edit
it with a spreadsheet.
There's no schema,
no relational tables or anything.
All the information for a given piece
of content is available in a single row.
And because of that,
it's really easy to stuff this into
one of those NoSQL content stores.
So if you're using Lucene or SimpleDB,
Voldemort, Memcached,
anything with kind of a key value system,
EPF Flat is a great way to do that.
So that's EPF.
It's a lot of data,
a lot of possibilities.
To make it easier on you to pull
this data into your database,
we do have the EPF importer script.
It's a cross-platform Python app,
and it pulls down the EPF data
into a MySQL database.
It handles both the relational
and the EPF flat data,
and it's really easy to set up and get
going because it's self-configuring.
It will actually read the comment
headers from the export files and
use that to generate column names,
database type information.
That allows us to distinguish
a VARCAR from a number,
and it will even pull in the
suggested primary keys based
on the comments in the export.
Thank you.
You can restrict the imports
with a whitelist and a blacklist.
So if you're interested in just a subset
of the information that's available,
you can either blacklist the
other stuff or whitelist the
things you're interested in.
Since it's such a large amount of data,
it actually supports resume.
So if it's interrupted for any reason,
you don't have to start
over from the beginning.
And it's released a sample code,
so if you don't deploy MySQL in
your production environment
and you want to use it with
one of these other data stores,
totally easy to do.
You just edit the code and
you're off to the races.
So now that we've got our live,
updated over the web services and
we've got our bulk processing,
let's see what we can do with it.
One of the cool things that you
can do once you have a notion of
what content is available on the
store is to create a web mix.
These are dynamically generated
playlists that you can create on
the fly just by defining a URL.
There's no upload required beforehand.
So if you -- if a user on your
site has expressed interest
in a particular set of data,
you can use Web iMiX to generate
a playlist of content that
they would be interested in,
and they can buy it with a single click.
Now this works, it's worked for a few
years on the desktop,
but it recently came onto
the iPad and iPhone as well.
So it's got this great UI.
So to get started with a Web Mix,
you do need to register an account
with the affiliate program first.
And that's so that you can digitally
sign each URL so that we know that
a particular Web Mix came from you.
There's a script provided
to get you going.
And just take a look at this output.
You can define the
title for your Web Mix,
and that's going to show up in the UI.
You can also specify the description,
and that will be there too.
There's an IDs field for
specifying the content that you
actually want within the playlist,
and you can specify
both songs and albums.
So if you want to
include an entire album,
that's doable.
And finally, there's the WDID,
which identifies you as the
source of this Web Mix URL,
and a key which represents the hash
of the URL that's been applied.
So that's just we know that
this came from a trusted source.
That's WebMix and the affiliate program.
All of this information is available
on this great resources website.
It's available at
apple.com/itunesaffiliates.
There's a lot of information
there about documentation.
Some of these-- a lot of the
keys and permitted values,
there's a long list of pretty much
everything you can do with it.
There's a blog and some tips
and tricks that we encounter.
So if you go there,
we actually have an RSS feed that
you can sign up for and stay up
to date with all the goings on.
So I mentioned the
affiliate website already.
If you have any questions,
you can mail us at
itunesaffiliates@apple.com.
Our technology evangelist
today was Vicki Murley.
And if you have any more questions,
you can always go to
the devforums.apple.com
website and ask them there.
We'll be doing an
affiliate lab after lunch,
2:00 p.m., in the Safari and
web demo-- lab area.
And just to summarize,
the affiliate program is a great
way to earn commissions and to
promote your apps and other content.
This can be really powerful and
also an important source of revenue.
If you're just getting started,
check out LinkMaker and the widgets.
Pretty much no coding
necessary to use that.
You can use RSS for keeping
track of what's new,
what's hot on the store.
And you can do the Search API for
on-the-fly queries and lookup to get
the latest prices and other metadata.
EPF is available as a bulk
data feed which can help you
do some offline processing.
and Web Mix allows you to define
custom playlists for users on the
fly right when they're needed.
I really do urge you to check
out the Affiliaite's website.
It's a great way to stay in
touch and stay abreast of what's
going on with the program.
and most importantly,
if you're interested,
go reach out to one or more
of the affiliate networks,
create an account,
and get started because there's no
other way to get started faster.
All right, thanks.